https://www.javatpoint.com/history-of-java
History of Java - Javatpoint
History of Java - Javatpoint ? SCROLL TO TOP Home Java Programs OOPs String Exception Multithreading Collections JavaFX JSP Spring Spring Boot Projects Interview Questions Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Method Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev History of Java History of Java Java Version History The history of Java is very interesting. Java was originally designed for interactive television, but it was too advanced technology for the digital cable television industry at the time. The history of Java starts with the Green Team. Java team members (also known as Green Team), initiated this project to develop a language for digital devices such as set-top boxes, televisions, etc. However, it was best suited for internet programming. Later, Java technology was incorporated by Netscape. The principles for creating Java programming were "Simple, Robust, Portable, Platform-independent, Secured, High Performance, Multithreaded, Architecture Neutral, Object-Oriented, Interpreted, and Dynamic". Java was developed by James Gosling, who is known as the father of Java, in 1995. James Gosling and his team members started the project in the early '90s. Currently, Java is used in internet programming, mobile devices, games, e-business solutions, etc. Following are given significant points that describe the history of Java. 1) James Gosling, Mike Sheridan, and Patrick Naughton initiated the Java language project in June 1991. The small team of sun engineers called Green Team. 2) Initially it was designed for small, embedded systems in electronic appliances like set-top boxes. 3) Firstly, it was called "Greentalk" by James Gosling, and the file extension was .gt. 4) After that, it was called Oak and was developed as a part of the Green project. Why Java was named as "Oak"? 5) Why Oak? Oak is a symbol of strength and chosen as a national tree of many countries like the U.S.A., France, Germany, Romania, etc. 6) In 1995, Oak was renamed as "Java" because it was already a trademark by Oak Technologies. Why Java Programming named "Java"? 7) Why had they chose the name Java for Java language? The team gathered to choose a new name. The suggested words were "dynamic", "revolutionary", "Silk", "jolt", "DNA", etc. They wanted something that reflected the essence of the technology: revolutionary, dynamic, lively, cool, unique, and easy to spell, and fun to say. According to James Gosling, "Java was one of the top choices along with Silk". Since Java was so unique, most of the team members preferred Java than other names. 8) Java is an island in Indonesia where the first coffee was produced (called Java coffee). It is a kind of espresso bean. Java name was chosen by James Gosling while having a cup of coffee nearby his office. 9) Notice that Java is just a name, not an acronym. 10) Initially developed by James Gosling at Sun Microsystems (which is now a subsidiary of Oracle Corporation) and released in 1995. 11) In 1995, Time magazine called Java one of the Ten Best Products of 1995. 12) JDK 1.0 was released on January 23, 1996. After the first release of Java, there have been many additional features added to the language. Now Java is being used in Windows applications, Web applications, enterprise applications, mobile applications, cards, etc. Each new version adds new features in Java. Java Version History Many java versions have been released till now. The current stable release of Java is Java SE 10. JDK Alpha and Beta (1995) JDK 1.0 (23rd Jan 1996) JDK 1.1 (19th Feb 1997) J2SE 1.2 (8th Dec 1998) J2SE 1.3 (8th May 2000) J2SE 1.4 (6th Feb 2002) J2SE 5.0 (30th Sep 2004) Java SE 6 (11th Dec 2006) Java SE 7 (28th July 2011) Java SE 8 (18th Mar 2014) Java SE 9 (21st Sep 2017) Java SE 10 (20th Mar 2018) Java SE 11 (September 2018) Java SE 12 (March 2019) Java SE 13 (September 2019) Java SE 14 (Mar 2020) Java SE 15 (September 2020) Java SE 16 (Mar 2021) Java SE 17 (September 2021) Java SE 18 (to be released by March 2022) Since Java SE 8 release, the Oracle corporation follows a pattern in which every even version is release in March month and an odd version released in September month. More Details on Java Versions. Next TopicFeatures of Java ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Feedback Send your Feedback to [email protected] Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Splunk SPSS Swagger Transact-SQL Tumblr ReactJS Regex Reinforcement Learning R Programming RxJS React Native Python Design Patterns Python Pillow Python Turtle Keras Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal Ability Interview Questions Company Questions Trending Technologies Artificial Intelligence AWS Selenium Cloud Computing Hadoop ReactJS Data Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git Machine Learning DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS Data Structures DAA Operating System Computer Network Compiler Design Computer Organization Discrete Mathematics Ethical Hacking Computer Graphics Software Engineering Web Technology Cyber Security Automata C Programming C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control System Data Mining Data Warehouse Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
