https://www.javatpoint.com/java-keywords
Java Keywords - Javatpoint
Java Keywords - Javatpoint ? SCROLL TO TOP Home Java Programs OOPs String Exception Multithreading Collections JavaFX JSP Spring Spring Boot Projects Interview Questions Java Training Java Tutorial What is Java History of Java Features of Java C++ vs Java Hello Java Program Program Internal How to set path? JDK, JRE and JVM JVM: Java Virtual Machine Java Variables Java Data Types Unicode System Operators Keywords Control Statements Java Control Statements Java If-else Java Switch Java For Loop Java While Loop Java Do While Loop Java Break Java Continue Java Comments Java Programs Java Object Class Java OOPs Concepts Naming Convention Object and Class Method Constructor static keyword this keyword Java Inheritance Inheritance(IS-A) Aggregation(HAS-A) Java Polymorphism Method Overloading Method Overriding Covariant Return Type super keyword Instance Initializer block final keyword Runtime Polymorphism Dynamic Binding instanceof operator Java Abstraction Abstract class Interface Abstract vs Interface Java Encapsulation Package Access Modifiers Encapsulation Java Array Java Array Java OOPs Misc Object class Object Cloning Math class Wrapper Class Java Recursion Call By Value strictfp keyword javadoc tool Command Line Arg Object vs Class Overloading vs Overriding Java String Java Regex Exception Handling Java Inner classes Java Multithreading Java I/O Java Networking Java AWT & Events Java Swing JavaFX Java Applet Java Reflection Java Date Java Conversion Java Collection Java JDBC Java Misc Java New Features RMI Internationalization Interview Questions Java MCQ next ? ? prev Java Keywords Java keywords are also known as reserved words. Keywords are particular words that act as a key to a code. These are predefined words by Java so they cannot be used as a variable or object name or class name. List of Java Keywords A list of Java keywords or reserved words are given below: abstract: Java abstract keyword is used to declare an abstract class. An abstract class can provide the implementation of the interface. It can have abstract and non-abstract methods. boolean: Java boolean keyword is used to declare a variable as a boolean type. It can hold True and False values only. break: Java break keyword is used to break the loop or switch statement. It breaks the current flow of the program at specified conditions. byte: Java byte keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold 8-bit data values. case: Java case keyword is used with the switch statements to mark blocks of text. catch: Java catch keyword is used to catch the exceptions generated by try statements. It must be used after the try block only. char: Java char keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold unsigned 16-bit Unicode characters class: Java class keyword is used to declare a class. continue: Java continue keyword is used to continue the loop. It continues the current flow of the program and skips the remaining code at the specified condition. default: Java default keyword is used to specify the default block of code in a switch statement. do: Java do keyword is used in the control statement to declare a loop. It can iterate a part of the program several times. double: Java double keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold 64-bit floating-point number. else: Java else keyword is used to indicate the alternative branches in an if statement. enum: Java enum keyword is used to define a fixed set of constants. Enum constructors are always private or default. extends: Java extends keyword is used to indicate that a class is derived from another class or interface. final: Java final keyword is used to indicate that a variable holds a constant value. It is used with a variable. It is used to restrict the user from updating the value of the variable. finally: Java finally keyword indicates a block of code in a try-catch structure. This block is always executed whether an exception is handled or not. float: Java float keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 32-bit floating-point number. for: Java for keyword is used to start a for loop. It is used to execute a set of instructions/functions repeatedly when some condition becomes true. If the number of iteration is fixed, it is recommended to use for loop. if: Java if keyword tests the condition. It executes the if block if the condition is true. implements: Java implements keyword is used to implement an interface. import: Java import keyword makes classes and interfaces available and accessible to the current source code. instanceof: Java instanceof keyword is used to test whether the object is an instance of the specified class or implements an interface. int: Java int keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 32-bit signed integer. interface: Java interface keyword is used to declare an interface. It can have only abstract methods. long: Java long keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 64-bit integer. native: Java native keyword is used to specify that a method is implemented in native code using JNI (Java Native Interface). new: Java new keyword is used to create new objects. null: Java null keyword is used to indicate that a reference does not refer to anything. It removes the garbage value. package: Java package keyword is used to declare a Java package that includes the classes. private: Java private keyword is an access modifier. It is used to indicate that a method or variable may be accessed only in the class in which it is declared. protected: Java protected keyword is an access modifier. It can be accessible within the package and outside the package but through inheritance only. It can't be applied with the class. public: Java public keyword is an access modifier. It is used to indicate that an item is accessible anywhere. It has the widest scope among all other modifiers. return: Java return keyword is used to return from a method when its execution is complete. short: Java short keyword is used to declare a variable that can hold a 16-bit integer. static: Java static keyword is used to indicate that a variable or method is a class method. The static keyword in Java is mainly used for memory management. strictfp: Java strictfp is used to restrict the floating-point calculations to ensure portability. super: Java super keyword is a reference variable that is used to refer to parent class objects. It can be used to invoke the immediate parent class method. switch: The Java switch keyword contains a switch statement that executes code based on test value. The switch statement tests the equality of a variable against multiple values. synchronized: Java synchronized keyword is used to specify the critical sections or methods in multithreaded code. this: Java this keyword can be used to refer the current object in a method or constructor. throw: The Java throw keyword is used to explicitly throw an exception. The throw keyword is mainly used to throw custom exceptions. It is followed by an instance. throws: The Java throws keyword is used to declare an exception. Checked exceptions can be propagated with throws. transient: Java transient keyword is used in serialization. If you define any data member as transient, it will not be serialized. try: Java try keyword is used to start a block of code that will be tested for exceptions. The try block must be followed by either catch or finally block. void: Java void keyword is used to specify that a method does not have a return value. volatile: Java volatile keyword is used to indicate that a variable may change asynchronously. while: Java while keyword is used to start a while loop. This loop iterates a part of the program several times. If the number of iteration is not fixed, it is recommended to use the while loop. Next TopicControl Flow in Java ? prev next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Feedback Send your Feedback to [email protected] Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Splunk SPSS Swagger Transact-SQL Tumblr ReactJS Regex Reinforcement Learning R Programming RxJS React Native Python Design Patterns Python Pillow Python Turtle Keras Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal Ability Interview Questions Company Questions Trending Technologies Artificial Intelligence AWS Selenium Cloud Computing Hadoop ReactJS Data Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git Machine Learning DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS Data Structures DAA Operating System Computer Network Compiler Design Computer Organization Discrete Mathematics Ethical Hacking Computer Graphics Software Engineering Web Technology Cyber Security Automata C Programming C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control System Data Mining Data Warehouse Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
