https://www.javatpoint.com/control-system-tutorial
Control Systems Tutorial - javatpoint
Control Systems Tutorial - javatpoint ? SCROLL TO TOP Home Control System Java PHP ASP.NET ADO.NET C# HTML CSS JavaScript jQuery Quiz Projects Interview Q Comment Forum Training Control Systems Control System Basic concepts of control system Classification of Control system Requirements of a control system Mathematical modelling and representation of Physical system Transfer Function Block diagram in Control Systems Signal flow graphs Mason gain formula Examples with Explanation Time Domain Analysis Time response Analysis Transient and steady State analysis of Linear Time Invariant Systems Time Response of first order system Time Response of second order system Stability Analysis Stability conditions Routh-Hurwitz Stability Criterion Root Locus Basic concepts of root locus Angle and Magnitude condition of root locus Rules of root locus Example of root locus Frequency Response Analysis Basic concepts of frequency response Bode plot Polar plot Nyquist plot P, PI and PID Controller Control system Compensators State variable analysis State Space Model State variable analysis: Examples with explanation MCQ Control System MCQ Interview Questions Control Systems Electrical Machines next ? Control Systems Tutorial Control Systems Tutorial provides basic and advanced concepts of Control System Library. Our Control System Tutorial is designed for beginners and professionals both. Our Control System Tutorial includes all topics of Control System Tutorial such as Control System Introduction, Classification, Transfer Function, Signal flow graphs, Mason gain formula, Block diagram, State Space Model, etc. Control Systems Introduction A Control System is a system in which the output is controlled by varying the input. The first control system device was James Watt's Flyball governor, which was invented in 1767. The aim of inventing Flyball governor was to keep the speed of the engine constant by regulating the supply of the steam to the engine. In a control system, the behavior of the system is described by the differential equations. The differential equations can be either ordinary differential equations or the difference equations. There are two types of control system: Open loop control system. Closed loop control system. Open loop control system An open-loop control system is a system in which the control action is independent of the desired output signal. In this system, the output signal is not compared with the input signal which means there is no feedback signal in this system. The open-loop control system is also known as a non-feedback control system or control system without feedback. Examples Automatic washing machine- In this system, the operating time is set manually. After the completion of the set time, the machine stops whether the desired cleanness is obtained or not because there is no feedback signal which the machine can sense. Immersion rod- In this system, the rod heats up the water but how much hot water is required that cannot be sensed by the rod. Advantages of an open-loop control system Open loop systems are simple. These are economical. Less maintenance is required and is not difficult. Disadvantages of open loop control system Open loop systems are inaccurate. These systems are not reliable. These are slow. Optimization is not possible. Closed loop control system A closed loop control system is a system in which control action is dependent on the desired output. In this system, the output signal is compared with the reference input signal, and an error signal is produced then this error signal is fed to the controller to reduce the error to obtain the desired output. Examples Automatic electric iron. Servo voltage stabilizer. An air conditioner. Advantages of closed-loop systems These systems are more reliable. Closed-loop systems are faster. Many variables can be handled simultaneously. Optimization is possible. Disadvantages of closed-loop systems Closed-loop systems are expensive. Maintenance is difficult. Installation is difficult for these systems. Difference between an open-loop system and closed-loop system S.No Open Loop system Closed Loop system 1 These are easier to build. These are difficult to build. 2 These systems are not reliable. These systems are reliable. 3 These systems are slow. These systems are faster. 4 These systems are generally more stable. These systems are less stable. 5 Optimization is not possible. Optimization is possible. 6 Examples - Hand dryer, washing machine. Servo voltage stabilizer, air conditioner. Control Systems Index Control Systems Tutorial Classification of control system Mathematical modelling and representation of Physical system Transfer Function Block diagram in Control Systems Signal flow graphs Mason gain formula Transient and steady State analysis of Linear Time Invariant Systems Time Response of first order system Time Response of second order system Routh-Hurwitz Stability Criterion P, PI and PID Controller State Space Model Interview Questions Control Systems Electrical Machines Prerequisite Before learning Control System Tutorial, you must have the basic knowledge of JAVA Language. Audience Our Control System Tutorial is designed to help beginners and professionals. Problems We assure that you will not find any problem in this Control System Tutorial. But if there is any mistake, please post the problem in contact form. Next TopicBasic concepts of control system next ? For Videos Join Our Youtube Channel: Join Now Feedback Send your Feedback to [email protected] Help Others, Please Share Learn Latest Tutorials Splunk SPSS Swagger Transact-SQL Tumblr ReactJS Regex Reinforcement Learning R Programming RxJS React Native Python Design Patterns Python Pillow Python Turtle Keras Preparation Aptitude Reasoning Verbal Ability Interview Questions Company Questions Trending Technologies Artificial Intelligence AWS Selenium Cloud Computing Hadoop ReactJS Data Science Angular 7 Blockchain Git Machine Learning DevOps B.Tech / MCA DBMS Data Structures DAA Operating System Computer Network Compiler Design Computer Organization Discrete Mathematics Ethical Hacking Computer Graphics Software Engineering Web Technology Cyber Security Automata C Programming C++ Java .Net Python Programs Control System Data Mining Data Warehouse Javatpoint Services JavaTpoint offers too many high quality services. Mail us on [email protected], to get more information about given services. Website Designing Website Development Java Development PHP Development WordPress Graphic Designing Logo Digital Marketing On Page and Off Page SEO PPC Content Development Corporate Training Classroom and Online Training Data Entry Training For College Campus JavaTpoint offers college campus training on Core Java, Advance Java, .Net, Android, Hadoop, PHP, Web Technology and Python. Please mail your requirement at [email protected] Duration: 1 week to 2 week Like/Subscribe us for latest updates or newsletter Learn TutorialsLearn JavaLearn Data StructuresLearn C ProgrammingLearn C++ TutorialLearn C# TutorialLearn PHP TutorialLearn HTML TutorialLearn JavaScript TutorialLearn jQuery TutorialLearn Spring Tutorial Our WebsitesJavatpoint.comHindi100.comLyricsia.comQuoteperson.comJobandplacement.com Our Services Website Development Android Development Website Designing Digital Marketing Summer Training Industrial Training College Campus Training Contact Address: G-13, 2nd Floor, Sec-3 Noida, UP, 201301, India Contact No: 0120-4256464, 9990449935Contact Us Subscribe Us Privacy PolicySitemap About Me © Copyright 2011-2021 www.javatpoint.com. All rights reserved. Developed by JavaTpoint.
